the US President Joe Biden will visit
Israel on Wednesday US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin said the president
would reaffirm what he called America's
Ironclad commitment to Israel's security
he'll also discuss its War aims and
strategy as Israel presses on with air
strikes as well as the need to protect
the lives of civilians and enable
humanitarian Aid to reach Gaza blinkin
said the visit was coming at a critical
moment for the region and for the world
now we'll have more on what to expect
from the trip in a moment but first
here's a look at the situation in Gaza
where more than 1 million have been
displaced and at least 2,800 people have
been
killed entire neighborhoods raised to
Rubble Israel air strikes continue to
flatten buildings across
Gaza on the ground here in RAF
the scramble to rescue people trapped
under the debris after a recent strike
demolished an apartment
building rushing the injured to
hospital and lining up the bodies of
those killed outside the
morg residents here say they have
nowhere to
go no electricity no water no n no
nappies no milk but even if we die from
Hunger we will stay here and we will not
leave in 5 days we witnessed bombs fall
on houses corpses in the street we fled
to the UN school we thought it was safe
but they targeted it and people
died thousands of people from across
Gaza have left their homes and headed
south to Rafa in recent days after being
told to evacuate by Israel mediators
have so far failed to negotiate a
ceasefire that would allow foreigners to
leave Gaza at the only border into
Egypt so for many it is a difficult
[Music]
wait we come to the border crossing
every day we contact the embassy every
day and they tell us to go to the
crossing we wait for up to8 hours and
then we go back the journey is dangerous
we want them to solve this problem so
that we can travel
according to US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin America and Israel have
now agreed to develop a plan that would
allow a to reach
Gaza but working out the details will
likely take
time time that is running out for the
thousands of gazans caught in a growing
humanitarian
crisis and we can speak now to Steven
Ryan a spokesperson for the
international Committee of the Red Cross
in Jerusalem thanks so much for joining
us uh stevenh uh we know Gaza has been
without food without water fuel medical
supplies for a week now can you update
us um about the conditions there right
now well I can tell you that the
situation is dire having spoken to our
teams on the ground uh they're seeing
the the effects the accumulative effects
of this lack of access to Food Water
electricity uh really CH and sta these
uh large numbers of people who have been
displaced we've seen families women
elderly people trying to walk to safety
but none of them are sure where is safe
right now many people are still sleeping
in the open and nobody knows what's
coming next children are afraid and
we're seeing people in complete disarray
and right now the situation is
critical I is your organization in touch
with authorities in Israel in Gaza and
more importantly are they are they
listening to what you have to say well
the International Community to the Red
Cross is the organization that is
responsible for working and humanitarian
assistance during conflicts so certainly
part of our job is to engage with uh
engage in dialogue with all authorities
with all parties to the conflict we have
been appealing from the outset for
respect for international humanitarian
law for the parties to actively take
every measure and every precaution that
they should take in order to protect
civilians and it's the civilians that
are suffering the brunt of this
conflict uh we also need to have access
both to be able to bring in the much
needed relief items that are going to
assist these people as well as to bring
in additional teams to support the
response that's needed right now but to
do this uh we need authorization from
all parties to the
complect okay so the authorization is is
CR critical what are the sort of the
other major challenges that
organizations Aid organizations like
yours are facing in
Gaza well certainly it's the scale of
the problem and the the rapid changes
that are occurring from our point of
view we uh we are ready to assist people
in any way that uh we can anything
within the Mandate of the Red Cross and
of the ICC in particular our teams we
have over a 100 staff members in Gaza
and they are doing the best that they
can to help the people that they can
with the dwindling resources that we
have this means that we need to have
much more relief items into into Gaza as
soon as possible to do this as I
mentioned all parties need to give
authorization and we also need to be
assured that our teams will be able to
work safely you heard already in the
report and over the past couple of days
that the lives of healthcare workers and
humanitarians are at risk by responding
here and this means that in order to
provide assistance there needs to be
pauses to the fing and or te need to be
able to do their jobs the Israeli Army
has been telling civilians in Northern
Gaza to move South can you put into
perspective for us how this huge
movement of people uh is in impacting
humanitarian efforts in the
territory as I mentioned this makes the
situation extremely Dynamic and
constantly changing it also means that
there are a huge number of people moving
to one place and in the hope that they
will be able to get assistance when they
get there in order for them to get that
assistance it needs to get into Gaza all
of these people who have fled their
homes they flee only with what they can
carry as fuel is very short people don't
have cars and certainly the Red Cross
and other actors are Keen to provide the
assistance
uh that's much needed but this is going
to be a huge Challenge and one that
we're going to have to adapt to ongoing
basis because the situation continues to
change our priority is to provide
humanitarian assistance to civilians in
Gaza as well as the other aspects of the
icrc's work including within Israel but
right now uh access is what's needed and
Fai access is what's needed Steven Ryan
from the international
of the Red Cross thank you so much for
your time and for speaking to
us